Hi, everyone, welcome to the second part of the matching of patterns.
All right, so what I'm going to do is I'm just going to say matching part one plus part two.
So let's provide to here.
So we this is part one and part two.
So I should probably change this, these names, but I'm not going to so I'm just going to leave it
like that.
So inside this fourth example, we are going to change the method.
Now we will we are getting the match to word.
OK, so whichever word matches our criteria of this regular expressions.
Right.
And now we want to get the word we don't want to know whether or not that word exists.
So what the test method gave us was a boolean.
So it told us whether that pattern that we have been looking inside that specific sentence is, is the
pattern exists.
Does the Pernot is does the pattern exist inside the sentence or it doesn't.
So it was just like true or false?
It exists.
True.
It doesn't exist.
False.
Now, not only we want to know, but we want to grab it as well.
We want to use that.
Word as well.
OK, so we need to grab it, we will we want to print it to the council.
All right.
So what I want to do is I'm going to create our Regg for X.
So this is the fourth example.
I'm sure you are getting the gist of this.
All right.
And in here, we are going to provide our pattern.
So what it is that what is the word that we're looking for so we could go ahead.
And we could look for a fox.
All right, we could look for a fox, and I'm just going to provide the that in here.
All right.
So we could go ahead and we could say I we could provide the flock because in case the fox is upper
case or lower case, we don't care about that.
We just want to grab this fox, even though we know that this fox is lower case.
But imagine you have like 10 pages of text.
How would you find Fox in that?
That's why you use regular expression.
If Fox is right in front of you, you don't need to use regular expressions in the first place.
You use it because you don't know what you're looking.
You just provide the pattern.
You don't know whether or not that pattern exists within that text.
That's why we use we use the test method.
The test method told us, yes, whatever you're looking for, it does exist.
But it didn't give us any way of grabbing it.
But the match method is going to allow us to grab it.
So let's copy these two lines right in here and let's come in them.
And so this is going to be four, right?
But instead of the test, we are going to go with the match method.
So we are going to grab our sentence first.
Right.
And then we want to make sure what it is that we want to match it to that sentence.
So first, we want to we want to test we want to test this with that sentence.
Now we want to match the sentence with this regular expression.
And in here, what I'm going to do is I'm going to pass in our for X.
And I'm going to say it and it is going to give us that, and indeed this is an array, so it looks
like an array.
So it behaves.
It is an array, actually.
All right, and it gives us all this information, so if I zoom out, it says we have the first index
is going to be Fox.
It is the word that we are looking for.
So now using our index, we know how we can extract the word fox to use it in anywhere, anywhere,
anywhere else we want.
So it gives us which index it is that it starts.
All right.
So if I count one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, I know it's silly,
but I got to count 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16.
So it starts right at the index of 16.
Oh, it starts from zero.
Now, the index of this is 16 because I started from one, but the indices, they start from zero.
All right.
And this is where the input actually is.
So we can grab the input, we can grab the fox, we can grab whatever it is that we want.
So this is what the match method is going to give us.
The match method is going to give us that word.
And in case we don't have it, we are going to get it now because we don't have it.
So I'm just going to provide Fox and I'm going to provide box as well.
So you get the gist, you know, that we do get now in the regular expressions as well.
So this is our example.
Number four, let's dive into the example.
Number five in the example.
Number five, we want to grab the match words.
Now, so far, we used to grab only one word.
What if you want to grab more than that?
So for that, what we are going to do is you are going to use the gif like, all right, so let's create
our regular expressions.
By this time.
I know you you get what the regular expressions are, what they do.
So because there are two the inside the sentence, I want to grab both of them.
But one of these is lower upper case.
The other one is lower case or I'm not sure which is upper case war, which is lower case.
I'm just going to provide the if like just to ignore the case sensitiveness.
And if I provide the gif, like we are going to grab all of all of the occurrences of this THC inside
the sentence.
So let's copy this to put them right here uncommented.
And I'm just going to say five, and when I say it, we get twitchy, uppercase, lowercase, because
it gives us all the occurrences and if I remove it, we get only the first occurrence.
G.
Gisli gives us all the occurrences that are there.
So the third the sixth example is going to be we are getting the match words with the dot notation.
OK, so what I'm going to do before that is I'm just going to come in this one out.
I hope you're not getting confused.
So this is the wild card character.
This dot is the wild card character.
If you just provide the dots there, it is going to grab everything there is inside that that string.
So we are going to say a reg six X and we are going to say that what it is that we don't know what the
starting letter is.
So I'm just going to provide a dot.
But I do know the middle character is oh, and gosh, I don't know what the ending character is.
So I'm just going to provide another dot and I'm going to say, gee, I want to grab all instances of
this.
So we are just going to print it to the console and console will tell us what we have selected.
So let's change this to six set.
Now we get row, we get Fox, we get space over and we get done.
And why do we do?
Why do we get that?
So we don't care what the before character is.
That's why we provide that.
It could it be anything?
It could be anything.
We only care that in the middle it is going to have an hour and we don't care what what it has at the
end.
So take this, for example, r o w so we don't care what's in the at the start, which is like keep
in mind that this is a three character word.
So even though Brown is like a five character word, we have just selected the three of the three which
are inside there.
So this is a regular expression is really, really delicate when it comes to finding patterns.
And this is why this is really advanced finding and searching for patterns.
That's why we use regular expressions.
So it doesn't care about the B, it doesn't care about the end.
It just cares about the R O.W. because this r O.W. matches this pattern because we have any character
and then we have O and we then we have another any character.
So it matches the r o r o w the fox, the space of even this one.
Like we have a space here then we have O and then we have we we don't care what comes before V what
character.
We don't care what, what character comes after.
We just care that there should be a V a sorry an O in the middle and then we get dog as well.
All right, so let's do this.
I'm just going to copy it down down below and just provide one dot.
This is the wild card character and it is going to grab all of the instances of all of the characters
inside the string.
And you can see all of them right here, one by one, the quick brown fox, all of them.
So this is called also called the wild card character.
Now, this is example number six.
Let's dive into the example number seven.
And in the example, number seven, we are going to use the brackets, not the text editor, but the
symbols.
So we we are getting the matched characters with the brackets.
So whenever we use brackets, we are looking for.
What is that we are looking for specific range of characters or specific characters that we are looking
for.
So I'm just going to say a range of seven X and now what it is that we are looking for.
First off, let's provide our brackets.
So I'm looking for all the B's, all the D and all the edges.
OK, and let's see how many B's D and X we have.
So let's come in them and let's grab this six and provide a seven.
And now we can see.
Oh, we should now you can see because we don't have the gif, like we can get only one instance of
the first thing that we find.
So out of the BD edge which one comes first inside the sentence.
So if I come on top we can see that out of those three, which is the first character that comes in
first, are firstly inside the string.
But if I provide the G flag in here and save it, we get all of them.
So we have to choose A one B and one inside that regular inside that sentence.
And finally, for our final example, we are going to grab the alphabets.
Right.
So this is getting the matched characters of Alphabet with brackets.
So we want to know which alphabet, which letters of the alphabet exist within this strength.
We want to know that.
So for that, I'm going to create another regular expression.
So how do we do that?
First off, let's open our brackets and we want to find the characters in the alphabet from all the
way to Z, and we want to grab all instances of that.
And we want to ignore the case sensitiveness.
Very, very simple, right?
That's why we have started with the basics and now we are building on that and the basics.
So let's grab this and let's put it eight.
So these are all the letters that we have in here, all eight from all the way to Z.
All right.
We have selected all instances of all instances of these letters.
So.
So this is our THP.
This is the quick brown fox jumps over THP the lazy duck.
All right.
So we have selected all that and we have ignored the case sensitiveness.
So this is going to be it for this lecture.
In the next lecture, we're going to have the matching part three.
See you guys then.